- [Instructor] The last part of this demo
is now, to test that user service.
For this, we're going to use a tool called BloomRPC.
It's a GUI tool.
The link has been provided on the slide.
You can download it as an app
and then get started for using it.
So let's go to the IDE.
Let's do a couple of more things.
We are going to quickly put one
info statement that the server did start.
So that we can do here.
And we'll look on line 24.
And say logger.info.
And say server started on port five, 5-0-0-5-1.
Let's also modify the exception message on line 33.
I was not very happy with it.
So I'm just going to say server shut down interrupted
because that was the exception that we got.
Okay, so now let's go ahead
and run this class so that the server gets started.
So I'm going to run this.
And once it runs, it should spring up saying
that the server did get started on port 5-0-0-5-1.
There we go.
So now we have the server started,
the user server on this port.
Let's open up BloomRPC.
I've already downloaded it on my machine.
I am going to choose the proto file.
So the proto file has to be picked up from your project.
So once you use that, it will automatically set
up the service class along with the method.
So you see that it automatically created
a client for the user server,
which is running on local host 5-0-0-5-1.
So now BloomRPC, GUI, or GUI
becomes a client to test the service.
So now let's go ahead and put a username.
Let's first see the records that we have in the database.
Let's look at our script.
Let's go to resources and initialize.
So we have a number of user records.
You can pick any one of these to test out.
I'm going to pick up Chandler Bing's record.
Let's go back and feed the username Chandler.
And if you've done it, all right
this hit should give us a response.
Let's see.
Yes, so we didn't get the user response back.
So we have been able to successfully test
the user service with a client.
The client in this case is the BloomRPC Client.
So there we go.
We've completed the build of the user service.
What we did is we first retrieved the user data
from the database.
Then we wrote the service stub implementation.
Then we hosted the implementation using the server.
And then the server was tested
by creating a client through BloomRPC.
There is one additional note that I would like to add here.
We just tested the user service using BloomRPC Client.
And the server of the user service
was run through a main method.
So you may think that you can actually start
the user server using the Java minus jar command.
Something like this.
So let me come down and write the command here.
So we can always execute the Java minus jar command
and feed this command part of the jar file.
This jar is basically this one,
the shopping services 1.2 snapshot jar
present in your target folder.
So you may think that you can start
the user server using this command,
but please note it is not possible in the current setup.
You would have to do a certain amount
of things in order to achieve this.
So what are those changes?
Those changes are entirely in the POM XML file.
The first thing is, you will have to add a plug-in
in the Maven POM XML to create a fat jar.
A fat jar will ensure that all the dependencies
of the GRPC framework and any other dependencies
that you may add.
Like, for example, H2 database,
the Protobuf Java users.
Everything is included in the jar file.
So that the jar can run as a standalone application.
Secondly, you will have to add the main method class
in the POM file.
You will have to mention that user server is
the class inside, which the mean method sits.
Thirdly, you also have to ensure
that you add the resources folder to your Java.
Why do we need the resources folder?
That is because we have
that initialized SQL database script that we want to run
as a part of this setup.
If this file is not included in the jar
then the database will not be created
and the application will not run.
So these are the changes that you need to do
to POM XML in order to make sure
that you're able to run the Java minus jar command.
The second part to this entire explanation is
that when we start building the order service
all the classes of the order service will sit
inside the same project, which is shopping services.
When that happens the way you will have created user server,
we will end up creating an order server.
In that case, we will have two main methods.
Each of these main methods will start servers
on different ports.
And if one project has two entry points for the main method
your Java minus jar command setup is not going to work.
Even if you do all the changes
that I mentioned from line 59 to 61.
In a typical industry project,
the user and the order services
always sit in different repositories.
In that case, when you make these changes
Java minus jar is good to run.
But that's not going to be possible in the current setup.
This is just so that you're aware of this
and not try to run this using Java minus jar
in the current setup of our course.